docs: ot2 installation and relocation (#19696)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: docs/ot-2/docs/installation/unboxing.md

---
title: "Opentrons OT-2: Unboxing"
---

Congratulations! Your OT-2 has arrived and you've prepared a space for it in your lab. This section provides instructions to walk you through unboxing, assembling, and preparing the OT-2 for use.

You'll need to budget about 30 minutes to an hour to set up your new OT-2. Before you begin, ask a lab partner to assist with the unboxing, lifting, moving, and assembly process.

## Assembly instructions

<div class="instruction-list" markdown>

1. Remove the top foam padding and window panels. Also remove the power cable box from the foam, if present. 
    ![image shows padding removal](../images/remove-padding.png)

2. Carefully cut open the blue plastic shipping bag. Be sure to avoid cutting any robot components inside.
    ![cutting the shipping bag](../images/cut-shipping-bag.png)

> 3. Pull upwards using the black steel frame to remove the robot from the shipping bag and box. The OT-2 weighs about 42 kg (93 lbs), always get help from a lab partner to remove the robot from the box.

Reviewer: splice! either "…(93 lbs). Always…" or "Because the OT-2 weighs…" would fix it.

Author: Ok, will correct this:

> Pull upwards using the black steel frame to remove the robot from the shipping bag and box. Because the OT-2 weighs about 42 kg (93 lbs), always get help from a lab partner to lift it.

    ![remove calibration switch cover](../images/switch-cover.png)

9. Put the trash bin in place.
    ![trash bin placement](../images/installing-trash-bin.png)

10. Use a 3 mm hex screwdriver to remove the red transport brackets, and then remove the brackets.
    ![removing transport brackets](../images/transport-brackets.png)

11. Remove the protective film from the window panels.<!-- It's OK to fight about who gets to do this -->
    ![removing the window protective film](../images/window-film.png)

12. Install the top window panel. Use the provided 2.5 mm hex screwdriver and 4 top window screws to fasten the top window panel to the robot.

<figure class="side-by-side" markdown>
![installing top window panel](../images/top-window.png)
![fastening top window panel to frame](../images/top-fasteners.png)
</figure>

13. Install the window covers.
    ![installing window covers](../images/install-window-covers.png)

</div>

## Post-assembly checklist

At this point you should have a fully assembled robot, but it isn't time to power it up and start running protocols, at least not yet. Before going forward, check your work against the items in this list:

>   - Confirm that all 3 transport fasteners have been removed, as powering on the robot with these brackets attached can damage the robot.

Reviewer: would be fun to have a checklist CSS style here. totally optional though.

Author: 🤔  hmmmmm will try.

  - Confirm that you are not missing any required cables or parts. If you are missing components, contact [Opentrons Support](https://opentrons.com/opentrons-support).
  - Visually check the deck and windows; if there are any significantly scratched, broken, or bent components, contact Opentrons Support.
  - Visually check the gantry; if it is uneven or slanted, contact Opentrons Support.
  - Move the pipette head in the x and y direction; if it makes any loud/abnormal noises or is difficult to move, contact Opentrons Support.

>   - Clean and sanitize the robot. <font color="red">REMINDER: LINK TO CLEANING SECTION HERE</FONT>

Reviewer: note is for followup PR, i presume.

Author: Yes, that's just a note to myself and to future reviewers for when this is more complete. It stands out so we can't miss it.

    - Move the pipette head in the x and y direction; if it makes any loud/abnormal noises or is difficult to move, contact Customer Support.

15. Clean and sanitize the robot. <font color="red">REMINDER: LINK TO CLEANING SECTION HERE</FONT>

    !!!note
        When during cleaning or other maintenance, be sure to turn off the machine and disconnect the power before proceeding. Also, pay attention to any warning labels as you work.

## Final steps and power on

16. Download and install the Opentrons App, which is available at <https://opentrons.com/ot-app>.

17. Connect the Ethernet cable to the OT-2 and laptop. If your computer does not have an Ethernet port, use the provided Ethernet-to-USB dongle.
    ![laptop USB-Ethernet connection](../images/computer-connection.png)

18. Connect the external power supply to the OT-2 and then connect the main power cable to a wall outlet.
    ![external power supply connection](../images/OT2-power.png)

19. Turn on the power by pressing the power button on the OT-2. It may take up to 45 seconds before the OT-2 starts running. After starting up, the robot will move the gantry to its home position.

</div>

> At this point your OT-2 is ready for use. You can attach pipettes to the gantry, add modules to the deck, and create protocols in for the robot using the Opentrons App.

Reviewer: Another halfway between phrasing. You can't create protocols in the app (yet) so maybe
```suggestion
At this point your OT-2 is ready for use. You can attach pipettes to the gantry, add modules to the deck, and upload protocols to the robot using the Opentrons App.
```
